---
title: Caching
description: Explanation of the criteria for generating drawing caches in Beutl
---

## Cache
Consider the following nodes:
```
1. Drawing Node
2. └ Transform Node
3. 　 └ Effect Node
4. 　 　 └ Shape Node
```
Within the Effect Node:
```
3-1. Border
3-2. DropShadow (with animation)
```
The Transform Node and Shape Node do not have animation.

In conclusion, in this example, after a few frames are drawn, Beutl caches up to 3-1 within the Effect Node.  
The reasoning behind this is explained below.

## Determining Cache Eligibility
Beutl determines that caching is possible if the state remains the same for three or more frames.

There are two methods for counting frames:
1. Automatic Counting
   This method requires that the node remains unchanged, but it is very simple.
   The frame count increments during rendering, and resets to zero if the node changes.
   If the count reaches 3 or more, the node is deemed **cacheable**.

2. Manual Counting
   This method applies to nodes implementing `ISupportRenderCache`.
   These nodes report how much remained the same compared to the previous frame.
   If the minimum value of the similarity over the last three frames is 1 or more, the node is deemed **cache-boundary eligible**.
   If all three frames are the same, the node is deemed **cacheable**.
```
     -> Frames
     1 2 3 4
3-1. ■ ■ ■ ■
3-2. ○ ● ○ ●
```
In this case, the second frame and beyond would report `1/2`.

After the fourth frame is rendered, the node is deemed **cache-boundary eligible**.
> [!NOTE]
> **Nodes that are ancestors of a cache-boundary node cannot be cached.**

If a node is deemed **cache-boundary eligible** or **cacheable** and all its child nodes are **cacheable**, the drawing content of that node is cached.

### Manual Control with ISupportRenderCache

Nodes implementing `ISupportRenderCache` can manually control whether to cache, the process of saving the cache, and rendering using the cache.

This implementation allows partial caching of multiple effects, and is used within the Effect Node.
