---
title: Installation
description: How to install Beutl
---

This document explains how to install Beutl.

In this document, the version of Beutl to be installed is referred to as `{version}`.

## For Windows

### Using the standalone installer (recommended)
1. Download and run `beutl-standalone-setup.exe`.
2. Follow the on-screen instructions to install.
3. Refer to [FFmpeg Installation](ffmpeg-install.md) to install FFmpeg.
4. Launch `Beutl.exe`.

### Using the lightweight installer
Install the [.NET Runtime](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/9.0).

> [!TIP]
> Determine the version of .NET to install based on the version of Beutl you are installing.  
> [Version Compatibility Table](../extensions/version-mapping.md)

1. Download and run `beutl-setup.exe`.
2. Follow the on-screen instructions to install.
3. Refer to [FFmpeg Installation](ffmpeg-install.md) to install FFmpeg.
4. Launch `Beutl.exe`.

### Manual installation
1. Download and extract `beutl-win-x64-standalone-{version}.zip`.
2. Refer to [FFmpeg Installation](ffmpeg-install.md) to install FFmpeg.
3. Launch `Beutl.exe`.

## For Ubuntu 22.04

### Installing from Debian package

1. Download `beutl_{version}ubuntu22.04_amd64.deb`.
2. Run the following commands:
```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt install ./beutl_{version}ubuntu22.04_amd64.deb
```
3. Installation is complete.

### Manual installation
1. Download and extract `beutl-linux-x64-standalone-{version}.zip`.
2. Refer to [FFmpeg Installation](ffmpeg-install.md) to install FFmpeg.
3. Use `chmod` to make `Beutl`, `Beutl.ExceptionHandler`, `Beutl.PackageTools`, and `Beutl.WaitingDialog` executable.
4. Launch `Beutl`.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If installing a version below `1.0.0-preview.5`,
> refer to [this guide](https://github.com/shimat/opencvsharp#ubuntu) to build `libOpenCvSharpExtern`.

## For macOS

- Download and extract `Beutl.osx_arm64.app.zip` or `Beutl.osx_x64.app.zip`.
- Double-click the downloaded file to extract it.
- Double-click `Beutl.app` to launch the application.

- If you see a warning about FFmpeg not being installed, refer to [FFmpeg Installation](ffmpeg-install.md) to install FFmpeg.
